PUBLIC SPECIMEN HOMEOWNERS POLICY — SHELTER HO-3
Jurisdiction: OK
Carrier: Shelter Mutual Insurance Company (HO-3, filed with Oklahoma OID)
Source URL: https://www.oid.ok.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/Shelter_HO-3Policy.pdf
Disclaimer: Educational use only. Public regulatory specimen — not a quote, endorsement, or binding contract. Coverage terms vary by state, endorsements, and declarations page.
HO-3 (01-07)
For information regarding this policy, please
contact your Shelter Insurance Agent.
HOMEOWNERS'
INSURANCE
POLICY
SHELTER INSURANCE COMPANIES
Home Office: Columbia, MO 65218-0001
dfg
HO-3
(01-07)
TO OUR CUSTOMERS – PLEASE NOTE
Please read this policy carefully.  If you have
questions, contact your Shelter Agent for answers.
No agent can know your exact coverage needs or
budget considerations, so it is your responsibility to
examine the policy and make sure it provides the
types of coverage you need in the amounts you
requested.
If you suffer a loss, please read this policy again so
that you will be reminded of your rights and
obligations.  It is very important for you to recognize
that this insurance policy is a legally binding
contract.  If any insured fails to perform an
obligation required by this policy, the coverage
which it might otherwise provide could be lost.
THE INDEX
WHERE YOU CAN FIND IT
Declarations - Your Name, Location of Your Residence, Policy Period, Limits of Liability and Deductibles
Beginning on Page
Agreement ............................................................................................................................................................ 2
Definitions ............................................................................................................................................................ 2
General Agreements applicable to entire policy .................................................................................................... 8

Section I — Property Protection ........................................................................................................................... 11

Coverage A - Dwelling...................................................................................................... 11
Coverage B - Other Structures ............................................................................................................................ 11
Coverage C - Personal Property .......................................................................................... 14
Coverage D - Additional Living Expense and Loss of Rents ....................................................................... ........ 20
Additional Coverages Under Section I ................................................................................................................ 20
Special Provisions and Conditions Relating To Section I .................................................................................... 22

Section II — Personal Liability and Medical Payment Protection .......................................................................... 27

Coverage E - Personal Liability ........................................................................................................................... 27
Coverage F - Medical Payments To Others ......................................................................................................... 29
Coverage G - Damage to Property of Others ...................................................................................................... 31
Additional Coverages Under Section II ............................................................................................................... 31
1HO-3 (01-07)
HO-3 (01-07) 2
HOMEOWNERS’ INSURANCE POLICY
SPECIAL COVERAGE FORM 3
AGREEMENT
We agree to insure you according to all the terms of this policy,
(1) in reliance on your statements in the Application and in any Application for Change, both of which are made
a part of this policy, and
(2) based on our receipt of your payment of the premium.
When we receive your premium, this policy provides the types of insurance, in the limited amount, shown in the
Declarations. If any premium payment is by check, no insurance is provided if the bank does not honor the
check.
DEFINITIONS USED THROUGHOUT THIS POLICY
In this policy, the words shown in bold type have the meanings stated below unless a different meaning is stated
in a particular coverage or endorsement. Words in bold type that are derived from a defined word have the same
root meaning. The plural version of a defined word has the same meaning as the singular if it is bolded.  If any of
these same words are used but not printed in bold type, they have the meaning given them by their common
usage as set out in commonly used dictionaries.
1. Accident means an action or occurrence, or a
series of actions or occurrences, that:
(a) started abruptly,
(b) during the policy period, and
(c) directly resulted in bodily injury or property
damage.
If an action or occurrence that started abruptly
continues over a period of time and ultimately
results in bodily injury or property damage that
cannot be definitely attributed to any one specific
action or occurrence, all such bodily injury  or
property damage is, under this policy definition,
only one accident.  If a series of abrupt actions
or occurrences ultimately results in bodily injury
or property damage  that cannot be definitely
attributed to any one specific action or
occurrence, all such actions and occurrences,
under this policy definition, constitute only one
accident.
Accident does not mean:
(a) an action or occurrence that any insured
intended to result in bodily  injury , or
property damage, of any type;
(b) an action or occurrence that is intended by
any insured , if a reasonable individual
would expect it to result in bodily injury, or
property damage, of any type; or
(c) an intentional action by any person that
does not immediately result in bodily injury
or property damage , but ultimately does
result in such because of its repetition or the
repetition of similar actions.
2. Accidental direct physical loss means loss of
possession of, or actual physical damage to, a
part of the covered property which is caused by
an accident. It does not include:
(a) consequential economic damage resulting
from such physical damage to that part or
to the covered property as a whole,
(b) consequential economic damage resulting
from the inability to restore full monetary
value to that part or to the covered property
as a whole because of the fact that it has
sustained physical damage,
(c) consequential economic damage resulting
from the loss of use of that part or the
covered property as a whole,
HO-3 (01-07) 3
(d) consequential economic damage resulting
from the inability to match the parts which
are repaired or replaced with undamaged
adjacent parts, or
(e) any diminution of the pre-loss value of the
covered property after the repair or
replacement of its parts.
3. Actual cash value means total restoration cost
less depreciation. If the law of the state in which
this policy is issued limits the factors which may
be considered in determining the actual cash
value, only the factors allowed by such law will
be considered.
4. Bodily injury means:
(a) a physical injury;
(b) a sickness or disease of the body;
(c) the physical pain and physical suffering
which directly results from (a) or (b), above;
and
(d) a death which directly results from (a) or
(b), above.
Bodily injury does not mean:
(a) a mental injury;
(b) a sickness or disease of the mind;
(c) mental anguish; or
(d) emotional distress;
unless such mental or emotional condition is
diagnosed by a medical doctor and directly
results from bodily injury to the individual on
whose behalf the claim is made.
5. Business  means any activity for which the
person engaged in that activity receives
compensation of any kind, or reasonably expects
to receive compensation of any kind. Business
does not mean:
(a) the occasional sale of personal property at
the residence  premises unless that
property was raised, grown, or acquired, for
the purpose of selling it;
(b) the occasional rental or leasing , or the
holding for rental or  leasing , of the
dwelling  on the residence  premises  in
which you reside, for use as a dwelling;
(c) the rental or leasing , or the holding for
rental or leasing, of a part of the dwelling
on the residence premises
 in which you
reside, for use as a dwelling, unless the
rental or lease is to three or more roomers
or boarders;
(d) a part-time activity, engaged in by you or a
relative, if the individual engaged in that
activity is under the age of twenty-five, and
is a full time student.
6. Claim means a request by any person for benefits
under this policy as a result of any one accident.
It includes lawsuits, requests for the payment of
money and requests that we take any action, or
extend any coverage, provided for by this policy.
7. Compensation Law means any law under which
benefits are paid to a person as compensation
for the effects of bodily injury, without regard
to fault, because of that person’s status as an
employee or beneficiary. It includes, but is not
limited to, workers’ compensation laws, disability
laws, the Federal Employers’ Liability Act and the
Jones Act.
8. Custom farming means the maintenance or use
of premises, other than insured premises, for
the production of farm products and includes all
operations reasonably necessary for such
production that are performed:
(a) at the request of the owner or renter of
those premises; and
(b) in exchange for compensation in the form
of money or goods.
Custom farming  does not mean operations
performed as part of an exchange of farming
services so long as no other compensation is paid.
9. Declarations means the part of this policy titled
“Homeowner’s Insurance Policy Declarations”.  It
sets out many of the individual facts related to
your  policy including the dates, types, and
amounts, of the various coverages.
10. Decorative fixture means wall covering, floor
covering, paint, and molding which is attached
to the interior of:
HO-3 (01-07) 4
(a) your dwelling at the residence premises;
or
(b) other structures which are permanently
attached to the residence premises, but not
attached to your dwelling. If a structure is
connected to the dwelling by only a utility
line or fence, it will not be considered
attached to the dwelling for purposes of this
definition.
11. Deductible  means an amount of money
deducted from the total amount of all losses
covered under Section I of this policy, unless the
specific coverage under which a loss is covered
says otherwise. The amount of your deductible
is shown in the Declarations or in the specific
policy provision under which a loss is covered.
12. Depreciation means an amount of money that
is deducted from the amount we actually pay.
That amount is based on the decrease in the
value of the property since it was new.  It applies
to any part that must be repaired or replaced
to allow for the repair  or replacement  of a
damaged part, whether or not that part itself is
damaged.  The condition, age, extent of use, and
obsolescence of the part, and the property as a
whole, will be considered in determining
depreciation. Depreciation also applies to the
labor and applicable sales tax necessary to
complete covered repairs and replacements .
We will calculate the percentage by which the
materials necessary to the replacement  have
decreased in value, based on the factors stated
above, and apply that same percentage when
calculating the depreciation  applicable to the
labor and sales tax.
13. Domestic appliance means a device operated by
mechanical power, fuel, or electric current, which
is customarily used inside a dwelling.  Domestic
appliance  does not include permanently
installed:
(a) heating systems;
(b) cooling systems;
(c) water heating systems; or
(d) water softeners.
14. Dwell means to live in a location with, or without,
the intent to make that place one’s residence.
15. Dwelling means the structure in which one
dwells.
16. Farming means the ownership, maintenance or
use of premises  for the production of farm
products and includes all operations reasonably
necessary for such production.  Farming does
not include the sale of farm products.  Farming
does not include custom farming.
17. Farm products means:
(a) crops grown, raised, or kept, for the
purpose of commercial sale; and
(b) livestock grown, raised, or kept, for the
purpose of commercial sale.
18. General contractors’ overhead and profit means
any amount of money included in, or added to,
the estimated, or actual, cost of restoring
damaged property, to compensate a contractor
for something other than:
(a) the materials actually installed in, or on, the
damaged property, or
(b) the labor and equipment necessary to install
such materials.
19. Individual means a human being.
20. Insured means:
(a) You;
(b) relatives;
(c) any other individual under the age of 21
residing in your household who is in your
care or the care of a relative;
(d) with respect to any vehicle covered by this
policy, any employee of a person listed in
(a), (b) or (c) above, while in the course and
scope of such employment; and
(e) any person legally responsible for animals or
watercraft covered by this policy and owned
by a person listed in (a), (b) or (c) above. But
we will cover that person only with respect
to activities directly related to those animals
or watercraft. Insured does not mean:
(1) any person using or having custody of
an animal or watercraft in the course of
any business; or
HO-3 (01-07) 5
(2) any person having custody of an animal
or watercraft without permission of the
owner of that animal or watercraft.
21. Insured premises means:
(a) the residence premises;
(b) any one or two family dwelling you acquire
during the term of this policy, if you intend
to reside  there during the term of this
policy;
(c) the part of any other premises where you
dwell if it is shown in the Declarations;
(d) the part of any premises that are not owned
by any insured, if an insured is temporarily
using it as a dwelling;
(e) the part of any structures or premises, not
owned by any insured, which an insured
occasionally rents  for non- business
purposes;
(f) unimproved  premises owned by, controlled
by,  or rented to, an insured, but this does
not include premises, any part of which are
used for farming or custom farming;
(g) cemetery plots, or burial vaults, owned by
an insured;
(h) land on which a single or two family
dwelling is being built for an insured, if the
land is owned by, or rented to, the same
insured; or
(i) any structures used by you for storage of
non-
business  items usually kept on the
residence premises, and any premises to
which those structures are attached.
22. Judgment interest means interest on any
judgment provided for by the law of the state in
which the judgment is entered, whether it
accrues before or after a judgment.
23. Land motor vehicle means:
(a) a motorized vehicle  originally designed
primarily for travel on public roadways;
(b) a motorized vehicle that is licensed for use
on public roadways; or
(c) a vehicle attached to, or carried on, another
vehicle that meets the definition set out in
(a) or (b), above.
24. Lease means a right to possess and use real
property or personal property for a period of
thirty or more consecutive days based upon a
written agreement with the owner  of that
property.
25. Market value means the price that the damaged
part of the covered property would have brought
immediately before the loss, if offered for sale
by a reasonable person who is willing, but not
obliged, to sell it, and bought by a reasonable
person who is desirous of purchasing it, but who
is not compelled to do so.
26. Motorized vehicle  means any type of vehicle
capable of transporting one or more people that
has ever been powered by an internal
combustion engine regardless of the type of fuel
used in that engine. This definition applies even
if an engine is no longer used to power the
vehicle. This definition applies to all vehicles
whether they are designed to operate on land,
water, or in the air.
27. Named insured means any persons listed in the
Declarations  under the heading “ Named
Insured” and does not include persons listed
under other headings unless they are also listed
under the heading “Named Insured”.
28. Own means that the person referred to holds the
legally recognized title to, or is a leaseholder of,
an item of real property or personal property ,
irrespective of the fact that there may be other
owners. This definition is not changed by the
patterns of usage of the property.
29. Owner  means any person  who is a legally
recognized titleholder or leaseholder of an item
of real property or personal property ,
irrespective of the fact that there may be other
titleholders or leaseholders. An 
owner’s status
as such is not changed by the patterns of usage
of the property.
30. Person means an individual, a corporation, or
an entity, which has separate legal existence
under the laws of the state in which this policy
is issued.
HO-3 (01-07) 6
31. Personal property  means items that are not
permanently attached to premises. It includes
buildings on the residence premises that are not
permanently attached to the residence
premises. If an item or structure is attached to
something only by a utility line it will not be
considered permanently attached to it.
32. Premises means real estate. It includes land and
any improvements permanently attached to the
land. For purposes of this policy, all real estate
conveyed by one deed granting title to that land
will be considered the same premises. Lands
conveyed by separate deeds will be considered
separate premises.
33. Property damage  means physical injury to or
destruction of tangible property and includes
damages for the loss of its use.
34. Public roadway means a roadway maintained by
a governmental entity or agency including its
adjacent right of ways.  The fact that the general
public has access to a roadway does not itself
make that roadway a public roadway.
35. Punitive damages means a monetary award
imposed to punish a wrongdoer and to deter
others from similar conduct. It includes
exemplary damages. It also includes any
damages, or penalties, based upon any legal
theory that requires proof of the same standard
of conduct necessary to support an award of
punitive damages or exemplary damages, under
the law of the state in which they are awarded.
36. Recreational motor vehicle means a motorized
vehicle that:
(a) was not originally designed primarily for
travel on public roadways, or
(b) is not currently licensed for use on public
roadways.
Recreational motor vehicle does not mean:
(a) a vehicle used, or designed to be used, in
competition with other vehicles,
(b) a vehicle used solely to service the
residence premises, or
(c) a vehicle originally designed to assist the
physically handicapped, or
(d) a lawnmower used solely to mow grass.
37. Relative means an individual related to you by
blood, marriage, or adoption, who is primarily a
resident  of, and actually living in, your
household.  It includes your unmarried and
unemancipated child away at school.
38. Rent means a right to possess and use real
property or personal property for a period of
less than thirty consecutive days based upon a
written agreement with the owner  of that
property.
39. Repair means restoration by the use of labor
only on the damaged part of the covered
property in order to restore its form and function.
Restoration of pre-accident value is not included
in the definition of repair.
40. Replace means the installation or provision of
materials or parts to, or in place of, the
damaged part of the covered property. It
includes the installation or provision materials
or parts to, or in place of, any undamaged
parts that must be replaced  to allow for
replacement  of the damaged part. It also
includes the labor necessary to accomplish
such installation. Restoration of pre- accident
value is not included in the definition of
replace .
41. Reside means to live in a location with the intent
to make that place, and no other, one’s
permanent home.  If the parents of a minor child
do not reside with one another, we will consider
the child a resident of both their households if
that child regularly spends time in each of their
residences.
42. Residence employee means an employee of an
insured whose duties entail the maintenance or
use of the residence premises, or who performs
similar duties elsewhere but not in connection
with an insured’s business.
43. Residence premises means:
(a) any one or two family dwelling situated on
the premises described in the Declarations
if:
(1) you own that dwelling; and
HO-3 (01-07) 7
(2) you presently reside in that dwelling,
have resided  there in the last thirty
days, or will reside there within thirty
days of the inception date of this policy;
or
(b) a one or two family dwelling referred to in
the Declarations  as the “secondary
residence premises”, if you  own  that
dwelling at the time of a loss.
That dwelling, the grounds, and other structures
at the same premises , are included in this
definition.
44. Restoration cost  means the amount of money
it will, or did, cost to restore the form and
function of the damaged part of covered property
by:
(a) replacing it; or
(b) repairing it,
whichever is less expensive.
Restoration cost can be based on a combination
of (a) and (b) above, if some parts of the covered
property are replaced  and other parts are
repaired. Restoration cost includes:
(a) the cost of construction techniques
commonly used by the building trades in the
geographical area of the covered property;
and
(b) the cost of materials and parts, comparable
in quality to the damaged materials and
parts, to the extent those are available in the
geographical area of the covered property.
Restoration cost does not include:
(a) consequential economic damage resulting
from physical damage to the part or the
covered property as a whole,
(b) consequential economic damage resulting
from the inability to restore full monetary
value to the part or the covered property as
a whole because it has sustained physical
damage,
(c) consequential economic damage resulting
from the loss of use of the part or the
covered property as a whole,
(d) consequential economic damage resulting
from the inability to match the parts that are
repaired  or replaced with undamaged
adjacent parts, except as provided in the
insuring agreement with respect to
decorative fixtures,
(e) any diminution of the pre-loss value of the
covered property after the repair or
replacement of its parts,
(f) the cost of replacing or repairing materials
or parts that are unavailable in the
geographic area of the covered property
with those of like quality,
(g) the cost of using the services of tradesmen
or craftsmen who do not regularly offer their
services in the geographic area of the
covered property, or
(h) general contractors’ overhead and profit.
45. Total restoration cost  means the restoration
cost of all of the damaged parts of the covered
property that were damaged in one 
accident.
46. Unoccupied  means that people were not
residing in the residence premises at the time
of the loss.
47. Vacant means that you have ceased to dwell
there and that the dwelling  is devoid of all
personal property except those items that you
intend to permanently leave at that location.
48. War means armed conflict whether or not
officially declared. It includes civil war,
insurrection, rebellion, revolution, or any act or
condition incident to any of those events.
49. We, us and our mean the Company providing
this insurance.
50. You means any person  listed as a named
insured in the Declarations and, if that person
is an individual, his or her spouse.
HO-3 (01-07) 8
GENERAL AGREEMENTS APPLICABLE TO ENTIRE POLICY
1. WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF BODILY INJURY OR
PROPERTY DAMAGE
In the event of an accident covered under this
policy, the insured must promptly take all of the
following actions:
(a) Notify us or our agent as soon as possible.
The notice must give:
(1) your name and policy number;
(2) the time, place and circumstances of
the accident; and
(3) the names and addresses of all injured
individuals and witnesses.
(b) Cooperate with us, and assist us in any
matter relating to a claim.
(c) Send us all correspondence and all legal
papers that relate to any claim, made by
anyone, against us or against the person
seeking such coverage.
(d) Authorize us to obtain any other records that
may be relevant to the claim  or may
reasonably be expected to aid our
investigators in determining the facts
relevant to the claim.
(e) Provide us with a list of the damaged
property if a loss covered under Damage to
Property of Others occurs. The insured
must also exhibit the damaged property to
us if it is within the insured’s control.
(f) Provide any written proofs of loss we
require.
(g) Answer, under oath, any questions posed by
us, and sign a written transcript of such
questions and answers.
If such claim is based upon bodily injury , the
person making such claim must also:
(h) submit to physical examinations, at our
expense, by doctors we select as often as
we may reasonably require;
(i) authorize us to obtain relevant medical
records of the individual whose bodily
injury
 is the basis for such claim.
The insured must not, except at his or her own
cost, voluntarily make any payment, assume any
obligation, or incur any expenses related to the
bodily injury or property damage.
2. ASSIGNMENT
Except as provided in Coverage F of this policy,
you may not assign any of your  rights and
interests under this policy, unless we consent to
such assignment, in writing and endorse that
change on this policy. Such endorsement will
then become a part of this policy.
3. COVERAGE IN THE EVENT OF YOUR DEATH
If you die, the provisions of this policy will apply
to:
(a) any surviving member of your household
who was covered under this policy at the
time of your  death, but only while that
individual  is a resident  of, and actually
living in, the dwelling on the insured
premises;
(b) your legal representative while acting within
that capacity; and
(c) any person  having proper custody of
insured property until a legal representative
is appointed.
However, in order to obtain this coverage, any
of the people listed in (a), (b) and (c), above,
must notify us of your death. Coverage under
this provision will be provided for a maximum
of thirty days after your death, and will terminate
if the policy lapses.
4. NOTICE TO US
Any notice required by this policy may be given
by, or on behalf of, the insured to our authorized
agent within this state. If that notice contains
sufficient information for us to identify the
insured, we will consider it notice to us.
5. LEGAL ACTION AGAINST US
Any person  who makes a claim  or seeks
coverage under this policy agrees not to institute
any legal action against us unless that person
HO-3 (01-07) 9
has fully complied with all the terms of this
policy. Any legal action seeking a payment or a
determination of coverage under this policy or
its binder must be brought in the state in which
the residence premises are located.  This policy
and its binder are to be interpreted in accordance
with the laws of the state in which the residence
premises are located.
6. CANCELLATION
Cancellation of this policy will be handled in
accordance with the state specific endorsement
attached to this policy.
7. REFUSAL TO RENEW
Refusal to renew this policy will be handled in
accordance with the state specific endorsement
attached to this policy.
8. CONCEALMENT OR FRAUD
This entire policy is void as to all insureds if any
insured has:
(a) intentionally concealed, or misrepresented,
any material fact or circumstance relating to
the purchase of  this policy;
(b) negligently misrepresented any material fact
or circumstance related to the purchase of
this policy;
(c) intentionally concealed or misrepresented
any material fact related to any claim made
under this policy; or
(d) acted fraudulently, or made false statements,
relating to any claim made under this policy.
9. CHANGES TO THE POLICY
This policy includes the printed policy form, its
endorsements, the application related to it, any
applications for changes to it, and the
Declarations.  Those documents constitute all
the agreements between you and us relating to
this insurance. No change or waiver may be
effected in this policy except by written
endorsement issued by us. If a premium
adjustment is necessary we will make the
adjustment as of the effective date of the change.
If we change this particular policy form so the
insurance it provides is broadened without extra
premium, this policy will be broadened as of the
date we make that change effective in your state,
and the broader form will apply to your claims
after that date.
10. YOUR OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY US OF YOUR
CHANGES
The premium charged for this policy is based in
large part on information you provided to us. If that
information is incomplete or inaccurate, or if it
changes during the policy period, you must inform
us of that, if it relates to any of the following:
(a) a change in your residence;
(b) a change in the number or types of
businesses  operated on the insured
premises;
(c) a change in the ownership or management
of any business operated on the insured
premises;
(d) a change in the number of occupants, who
are not relatives, residing at the insured
premises;
(e) an addition or upgrade in the insured
premises; or
(f) a change in the number or types of animals
kept on the insured premises.
11. OUR RIGHT TO INSPECT PREMISES
We have the right to inspect any premises
covered by this policy as often as may be
reasonable during the term of this policy. You
agree to allow us to come onto those premises
and into any buildings on those premises.
12. OUR RIGHT TO RECOVER PAYMENT
In the event we make any payment under this
policy, we will be subrogated to all rights of
recovery, based upon the same damages that an
insured , or any other person  receiving the
payment, may have against any person liable for
those damages.
Any insured , or other person  who receives
payment under this policy, agrees to execute and
deliver legal instruments to us, and to take any
reasonable actions necessary to secure our
rights if we ask.
HO-3 (01-07) 10
Any insured , or other person  who receives
payment under this policy, agrees to
cooperate with us in enforcing our rights of
recovery acquired under this section and to do
nothing to prejudice our rights.
This does not apply to the coverages headed
“Medical Payments to Others” and “Damage
to Property Of Others”.
13. POLICY COVERAGE PERIOD
This policy applies only to losses, bodily
injury  or property damage  that occur during
the policy period.
14. OTHER INSURANCE
If this policy and any other insurance, issued
by us, or by any other company, applies to the
same loss, this policy will apply as follows.
(a) With respect to all coverages contained in
Section I, the insurance provided by this
policy will be prorated, based upon the
applicable limits of each policy, up to the
highest limit provided by any one policy.
This does not apply if a mortgagee, or
trustee under a deed of trust, has
duplicate coverage because of the ten-day
notice provision contained in the section
related to mortgagees and trustees. In
that instance, the provisions of that
section respecting the priority of
coverages will control.
(b) With respect to all coverages contained in
Section II, the insurance provided by this
policy will apply only as excess insurance,
and will then apply only in the amount by
which its limits exceed the limits of all
such other policies.
15. OTHER SOURCES OF COMPENSATION FOR
THE LOSS
(a) If an insured  is entitled to receive full
compensation for a loss covered by this
policy from another source, this policy
will not apply to such loss.
(b) If an insured  is entitled to receive partial
compensation for a loss covered by this
policy from another source, this policy
will apply only to the amount of the loss
for which the insured  is not entitled to
compensation from that source.
16. CONFORMITY TO APPLICABLE LAWS
If the terms of this policy conflict with the laws
of any state that are applicable to a covered
loss, the conflicting terms are amended to
conform to such laws.
17. EFFECT OF POLICY ACCEPTANCE
By acceptance of this policy, you agree that
the statements in the Declarations  and in any
Application or Application for Change accepted
by us, are offered as an inducement to us to
issue, continue, or renew this policy, and are
your agreements or representations. They are
not warranties.
18. CONTINUOUS RENEWAL
Subject to our  consent and subject to the
premiums, rules and forms then in effect for
us, this policy may be continued in force by
payment of the required continuation premium
for each successive policy term. Such
continuation premium must be paid to us
before the expiration of the then current policy
term and if not paid the policy shall terminate.
With respect to any mortgagee (or trustee)
named in the Declarations , this insurance will
continue in force as to only the interest of the
mortgagee (or trustee) for 10 days after
written notice of termination to the mortgagee
(or trustee), and shall then terminate.
HO-3 (01-07) 11

Section I — PROPERTY PROTECTION

COVERAGE A - DWELLING
INSURING AGREEMENTS
1. We cover accidental direct physical loss to the
following property, except for those perils and
losses excluded under the heading “Exclusions
Applicable To Coverages A & B”.
(a) Your dwelling, including building structures
attached to it, at the residence premises ,
but only if that dwelling is used principally
as a private residence . If a building
structure is connected to the dwelling by
only a utility line or fence, it will not be
considered attached to the dwelling  for
purposes of this coverage.
(b) Attached outdoor equipment used to service
the residence premises  while located on
the residence premises  or temporarily
elsewhere.
(c) Construction material at the residence
premises that you  intended to have
permanently attached to your  dwelling
located on the residence premises, if that
material has been at the residence
premises for ninety days or less.
(d) Outdoor antennas and reception dishes
(including their lead in wires), towers, and
masts, if they are located on the insured
premises and were functional immediately
prior to the covered loss. The limit of our
liability for this coverage is $200. This
amount includes the cost of damaged parts
and the labor necessary to repair the
damage.
2. We cover accidental  direct physical  loss to
decorative  fixtures  and, with respect to
decorative  fixtures  only, if consequential
economic damage will result from the inability
to match parts that are repaired or replaced with
undamaged adjacent parts, we will repair or
replace
 those undamaged adjacent parts to the
extent necessary to prevent that economic
damage.
3. We cover the reasonable cost you incur for
temporary repairs  or replacement  of your
property to protect it or other property from
eminent losses that would be covered by this
policy.
COVERAGE B - OTHER STRUCTURES
INSURING AGREEMENTS
1. We cover accidental  direct physical loss  to
other structures that are permanently attached
to the residence premises but not attached to
your dwelling, except for those perils and losses
excluded under the heading “Exclusions
Applicable To Coverages A & B”. If a structure
is connected to the dwelling by only a utility line
or fence, it will not be considered attached to the
dwelling for purposes of this coverage.  This
coverage does not extend to:
(a) structures used to any extent for business;
(b) outdoor radio equipment; or
(c) outdoor television equipment.
2. We cover accidental  direct physical  loss to
decorative  fixtures  located in any structure
covered under paragraph 1. above; and, with
respect to those decorative  fixtures  only, if
consequential economic damage will result from
the inability to match parts that are repaired or
replaced with undamaged adjacent parts, we will
repair or replace those undamaged adjacent
parts to the extent necessary to prevent that
economic damage.
3. We cover accidental  direct physical loss  to
construction material at the residence premises
that you intended to have permanently attached
to other structures covered in paragraph 1. of
Coverage B,  if that material has been at the
residence premises for ninety days or less.
4. We cover the reasonable cost you incur for
temporary repairs or replacement of parts of
your covered property to protect it or other
property from eminent losses that would be
covered by this policy.
HO-3 (01-07) 12
5. We cover accidental  direct physical  loss to
fences on the residence premises  under this
coverage only, whether they are attached to your
dwelling or not.  This coverage does not extend
to a fence used to any extent for business
irrespective of the fact that it may also be used
for non-business purposes.
EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO COVERAGES A & B
We do not cover any loss or damage if it would not
have occurred in the absence of any event or
condition listed below.  That loss or damage is
excluded from coverage regardless of:
(a) the proximate cause of that event or
condition;
(b) the fact that other events or conditions,
which are not excluded, caused the loss or
damage;
(c) the fact that other events or conditions,
which are not excluded, contributed to the
loss or damage;
(d) the sequence of the events or conditions
that caused the loss or damage;
(e) whether the events and conditions that
caused the loss or damage occurred
suddenly or gradually;
(f) whether the loss or damage is isolated or
widespread; or
(g) whether the loss or damage arises from
natural forces, external forces, or a
combination of such forces.
1. Enforcement of any ordinance or law regulating
the construction, use, repair or demolition of a
building or other structure. This exclusion
includes the increased costs incurred to comply
with an ordinance or law. We do cover loss
caused by actions of civil authorities to prevent
the spread of a fire, if that fire is caused by a peril
we insure against.
2. Movement of materials that support, or
surround, a structure.  We do not cover  damage
to any structure including, but not limited to: a)
patios, b) pavement, c) foundations, d) walls, e)
floors, f) roofs, g) ceilings, or h) slabs, if that
damage is caused by the sinking, rising, shifting,
expanding, or contracting, of earth or any other
supporting, or surrounding, material.  This
exclusion applies to earthquakes, volcanic
explosions, lava flow, landslides, mudflow,
mudslides, sinking of ground, subsidence,
erosion, movement resulting from improper
construction or compaction, improper site
selection, or any other force. We do not cover
any cost required to replace, rebuild, stabilize, or
otherwise restore, the supporting, or
surrounding, material.  We do not cover the cost
of any repair technique designed to compensate
for, or prevent, the instability of supporting, or
surrounding, material.  We do cover accidental
direct physical loss  that occurs subsequent to
any of these causes if that loss is caused by theft,
fire, or explosion.
3. (a) Water, or water borne contaminants or
materials, that flows on, or under, the
surface of the ground; waves; tidal waters;
or overflow of a stream or any body of
water. We do not cover spray from any of
these, whether or not driven by wind.
(b) Water, or water borne contaminants or
materials, that escapes from a pool or water
system, unless the portion of that pool or
water system from which the water escapes
is physically located within a building that
is permanently attached to the  residence
premises.
(c) Water, or water borne contaminants or
materials, that overflows from sewers,
drains, or pumps, if that overflow is caused
by the inadequacy of the sewer, drain, or
pump system, or by an obstruction of such
that is located off of the residence
premises.
(d) Water, or water borne contaminants or
materials, below the surface of the ground,
that exerts pressure on, or flows, seeps, or
leaks, through any part of a building or other
structure, sidewalk, driveway or pool.
HO-3 (01-07) 13
(e) Condensation of water vapor.
We do cover accidental direct physical loss that
occurs subsequent to any of the events or
conditions listed in 3(a), 3(b), 3(c), 3(d) and
3(e), above, if that loss is caused by theft, fire
or explosion.
4. Power, heating, or cooling failure or interruption,
unless it results from accidental direct physical
loss to power, heating or cooling equipment
located on the residence premises and that loss
is caused by a peril we insure against. We do
cover accidental direct physical loss that occurs
subsequent to any of these events if that loss is
caused by theft, fire, or explosion.
5. Neglect of an insured  to use all reasonable
means to protect covered property at and after
the time of loss or when property is threatened
by a peril we insure against.
6. War.
7. Nuclear reaction, radiation, radioactive
contamination or discharge of a nuclear weapon
even if accidental, or any consequence of any
of these.
8. An intentional act by, or at the direction of, any
insured  that a reasonable individual  would
expect to cause the loss for which the claim is
made.
9. Any event causing a loss to piers, bulkheads,
wharves and docks and anything attached to them.
10. Wear and tear; marring or scratching;
deterioration; inherent vice; latent defect;
mechanical breakdown; leakage of any chemical
or petroleum product from a storage container;
rust; mold; mildew; fungus; spores; wet or dry
rot; contamination; smog, smoke, or soot from
agricultural smudging or industrial operations;
continuous or repeated exposure to smoke or
soot; birds, rodents, squirrels, raccoons,
opossums, vermin, insects, or domestic animals.
We do cover accidental direct physical loss that
occurs subsequent to any of these events or
conditions if that loss is caused by fire or
explosion. We do cover accidental direct
physical loss caused by mold, mildew, fungus
or spores, if the original cause of the mold,
mildew, fungus or spores was itself a covered
loss. We will apply this exclusion to accidental
direct physical loss to the property, or part of
the property, which was actually damaged by the
excluded cause or event.  We will waive this
exclusion as it applies to accidental direct
physical loss to other covered property if that
loss was:
(a) caused by the accidental  discharge or
overflow of water or steam  from within a
plumbing system, heating system, cooling
system, fire protection sprinkler system,
water heater, water softener, or domestic
appliance, and
(b) the point at which the water or steam was
discharged, or from which it overflowed, is
physically located within a structure
permanently attached to the  residence
premises.
Our
 limited waiver of this exclusion, stated just
above, does not constitute a waiver of exclusion
11, below.
11. Continuous or repeated seepage or leakage of
water or steam over a period of fourteen days
or more.  If this exclusion applies, no part of the
loss is covered even though it may have
occurred prior to the fourteenth day of the
seepage or leakage.  We do cover accidental
direct physical loss  that occurs subsequent to
any of these events or conditions if that loss is
caused by fire or explosion.
12. Theft from in or around a dwelling  or other
structure that is undergoing construction, repairs
or renovations, unless that dwelling is occupied
by an insured during such construction, repairs
or renovations.
13. Freezing, thawing, pressure or weight of water
or ice, whether driven by wind or not, to a fence,
pavement, patio, swimming pool, foundation or
retaining wall. We do cover accidental direct
physical loss that occurs subsequent to any of
these events or conditions if that loss is caused
by fire or explosion.
HO-3 (01-07) 14
14. Vandalism, malicious mischief, or breakage of
glass and safety glazing materials:
(a) if the residence premises has been vacant
for more than 30 consecutive days
immediately preceding the date on which the
loss occurred. For purposes of this
exclusion we will not treat a building that is
undergoing construction, repairs or
renovations as being vacant; or
(b) to that part of the residence premises
rented or leased to others.
We do cover accidental direct physical loss that
occurs subsequent to any of these events if that
loss is caused by fire or explosion.
15. Freezing of plumbing, heating systems, cooling
systems, water heaters, water softeners, or
domestic appliances while any building in which
such system or appliance is located is vacant,
unoccupied , under construction, being
remodeled or renovated, unless you  take
precautions to:
(a) shut off the water supply and drain the
systems and appliances; or
(b) maintain heat in the building.
We do cover accidental direct physical loss that
occurs subsequent to any of these events if that
loss is caused by fire or explosion.
16. Freezing of hot tubs, spas or whirlpools attached
to the residence premises  unless you use
reasonable care to prevent such units from
freezing.
17. Illegal activities of any insured.
18. Dishonesty of any insured.
19. Any defect, inadequacy, fault, unsoundness or
weakness in:
(a) material used for construction or repair;
(b) site preparation including planning, zoning,
surveying, grading, compaction and
placement;
(c) workmanship, design or engineering
specifications; or
(d) maintenance of land, structures,
improvements and similar property on or off
of the residence premises;
if such defect, inadequacy, fault, unsoundness or
weakness existed before the accident  that
resulted in the loss. We do cover accidental
direct physical loss  that occurs subsequent to
any of these events or conditions if that loss is
caused by fire or explosion.
20. The action, lack of action, decision, or lack of
decision, of any group, organization, or
governmental body, or of any person on their
behalf. We do cover loss caused by actions of civil
authorities to prevent the spread of a fire, if that
fire is caused by a peril we insure against. We do
cover accidental direct physical loss that occurs
subsequent to any of these events or conditions
if that loss is caused by fire or explosion.
21. The conduct of any group, organization, or
governmental body, or of any person on their
behalf, regardless of whether the conduct is
negligent, wrongful, intentional, or without fault.
We do cover accidental  direct physical loss
which occurs subsequent to any of these events
if that loss is caused by fire or explosion.
COVERAGE C-PERSONAL PROPERTY
INSURING AGREEMENT
We cover accidental direct physical loss to:
1. personal property owned  or used by the
insured; and,
2. personal property you do not own if:
(a) it is located at the residence premises at
the time of the loss;
(b) you have been at the residence premises
during the 45 days immediately preceding
the loss; and
(c) you ask us to provide this coverage for that
property.
These coverages apply only if the loss is caused by
one or more of the following perils, and it is not
excluded elsewhere in this coverage:
1. Fire or lightning.
This peril does not include loss caused by nuclear
reaction, radiation, radioactive contamination or
discharge of a nuclear weapon even if accidental,
or any consequence of any of these.
HO-3 (01-07) 15
2. Wind or hail.
This peril does not include loss:
(a) to property in a building, caused by wind,
rain, snow, sand, sleet or dust unless the
building is first damaged by the direct force
of wind or hail, creating an opening through
which the wind, rain, snow, sand, sleet or
dust enters; or
(b) to watercraft and their trailers, furnishings,
equipment, and motors, unless they are:
(1) located inside a fully enclosed building
at the time of the loss; or
(2) non-motorized boats or canoes, owned
by you  and are on the residence
premises at the time of the loss.
3. Explosion.
This peril does not include loss caused by
nuclear reaction, radiation, radioactive
contamination or discharge of a nuclear weapon
even if accidental, or any consequence of any
of these.
4. Riot or civil commotion.
5. Aircraft, including self-propelled missiles and
spacecraft.
6. Vehicular collision.  However, this peril does not
apply if the only collision is between the personal
property  and the vehicle in which it is being
transported.
7. Smoke or soot. This peril does not apply to
losses:
(a) caused by smoke or soot from agricultural
smudging or industrial operations;
(b) caused by continuous or repeated exposure
to smoke or soot; or
(c) caused by nuclear reaction, radiation,
radioactive contamination or discharge of a
nuclear weapon even if accidental, or any
consequence of any of these.
8. Vandalism or malicious mischief.
(a) This peril does not apply to vandalism or
malicious mischief:
(1) committed by, or at the direction of, any
insured, or the husband, wife or child
of any insured;
(2) committed in or around a dwelling that
is undergoing construction, repairs or
renovations, unless that dwelling  is
occupied by an insured during such
construction, repairs or renovations;
(b) This peril does not apply to vandalism or
malicious mischief committed by any
person who is renting or leasing a part of
the residence premises;
(c) This peril does not apply to vandalism or
malicious mischief to personal property
located in areas of the residence premises
rented or leased to others;
(d) This peril does not apply, away from the
residence premises,  to vandalism or
malicious mischief of:
(1) personal property  while at any other
premises owned, rented or occupied
by an insured except while an insured
is temporarily using that premises as
a dwelling. Property of an insured who
is a student is covered at a dwelling
away from home if the student has
been at that dwelling at any time during
the 45 days immediately before the
loss;
(2) watercraft and their equipment; and
(3) trailers.
9. Theft or attempted theft.
(a) This peril does not apply to theft:
(1) committed by, or at the direction of, any
insured, or the husband, wife or child
of any insured;
(2) from in or around a building that is
undergoing construction, repairs or
renovations, unless that building is at
the location where you  presently
reside;
(3) of a precious or semi-precious stone
from its setting;
(4) of any credit card or loss by forgery or
alteration of any check, draft, promissory
note, bill of exchange, or similar written
promise, order, or direction to pay a sum
HO-3 (01-07) 16
of money. There may be limited coverage
for some of these items under the
section headed “Additional Coverages
Under Section I”; or
(5) that results from a voluntary parting
with title or possession of any property
by the insured or others to whom the
insured  has entrusted the property.
This exclusion applies even if such
parting of title or possession was
induced by a fraudulent scheme, trick,
device or false pretense.
(b) This peril does not apply to theft of the
following, when a part of the residence
premises is rented or leased to others:
(1) money, bank notes, bullion, coins and
medals and other numismatic property
and precious metals including platinum,
gold and silver, but not goldware or
silverware;
(2) securities, manuscripts, accounts,
deeds, evidences of debt, letters of
credit, notes, passports, tickets, stamps
and other philatelic property;
(3) jewelry, watches, precious and semi-
precious stones and furs, including any
article containing fur if that fur accounts
for its principal value; or
(4) any personal property , if the theft is
committed by any person renting or
leasing  a part of the residence
premises.
(c) This peril does not apply, away from the
residence premises, to theft of:
(1) property while at any other premises
owned , rented  or occupied by an
insured  except while an insured  is
temporarily using that premises as a
dwelling. Property of an insured who is
a student is covered at a dwelling away
from home if the student has been at that
dwelling at any time during the 45 days
immediately before the loss;
(2) watercraft and their equipment; and
(3) trailers.
10. Breakage of Glass
We cover damage to personal property caused
by breakage of glass constituting a part of any
building on the insured premises, however we
do not cover loss or damage to the glass itself
under this coverage.
11. Volcanic Eruption
This peril does not apply to loss caused by
earthquake or land shock waves or tremors that
occur before, during, or  after  a volcanic eruption.
All eruptions that occur within a period of 72 hours
will be considered one volcanic eruption.
12. Falling of objects
This peril does not apply to loss to the property
that fell, nor does it apply to other property
within a building unless, while it is falling, the
object first damages the exterior of a building.
13. Weight of ice, snow or sleet that damages
property in the building.
14. Collapse of any part of a building.
This peril does not apply to settling, cracking,
shrinkage, bulging or expansion.
15. Cracking, burning, bulging or tearing apart, of a
heating or air conditioning system, automatic fire
protection sprinkler system or a potable water
heating appliance. This peril does not apply to
loss that is caused by or results from freezing.
16. Discharge or overflow of water or steam  from
within a plumbing system, heating system,
cooling  system, fire protection sprinkler system,
water heater, water softener, or domestic
appliance, if the point from which the water or
steam was discharged or overflowed is
physically located within a structure permanently
attached to the residence premises.
This peril does not apply to loss:
(a) to the system or appliance from which the
water or steam escapes;
(b) caused by or resulting from freezing;
(c) to property at a building vacant for more
than 30 consecutive days immediately
before the loss;
(d) caused by water leaking from an aquarium;
HO-3 (01-07) 17
(e) caused by water leaking  from a  water bed;
(f) caused by water or steam from a hot tub or
spa; or
(g) caused by continuous or repeated seepage
or leaking over a period of fourteen days or
more and if this exclusion applies, no part
of the loss is covered even though it may
have occurred prior to the fourteenth day of
the seepage or leakage.
17. Freezing of a plumbing, heating and air
conditioning system, automatic fire protection
sprinkler system, or appliance.
This peril does not apply to any loss occurring
while the building is vacant, unoccupied, under
construction, remodeling or renovation, unless
you use reasonable care to:
(a) shut off the water supply and drain the
systems and appliances; or
(b) maintain heat in the building.
This peril does not apply to losses to any
appliance, hot tub, spa, whirlpool or equipment
located out of doors unless you use reasonable
care to prevent such units from freezing.
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY BASED ON LOCATION OF
PERSONAL PROPERTY
We cover personal property owned, or used by an
insured anywhere in the world. However, this coverage
is limited to 10% of the limits of liability for Coverage
C - Personal Property, stated in the Declarations for
any loss to personal property that is away from the
premises described in the Declarations for more than
thirty consecutive days. Personal property placed for
safekeeping with a bank, trust company, safe deposit
company, or a commercial storage facility available to
the general public, will be considered to be on the
residence premises.
SPECIAL LIMITS ON CERTAIN ITEMS OF PERSONAL
PROPERTY
The special limits stated below apply to the
corresponding groups of personal property and, if a
specific peril is set out in the list below, these limits
apply only to losses caused by that peril. These limits
do not increase the total amount of insurance for
Personal Property Coverage stated in the Declarations.
The limit of insurance for each grouping of personal
property is the maximum we will pay in any one twelve
month period for all property included in the group.
  Limit of
Insurance Personal Property Group
1. $ 200 Money, bank notes, bullion, coins and
medals and other numismatic property.
2. $1000 Securities, accounts, deeds, evidence of
debt, letters of credit, notes other than
bank notes, passports, tickets, stamps
and other philatelic property.
3. $1000 W atercraft, including their trailers,
furnishings, equipment & outboard motors.
4. $1000 T railers not used to transport
watercraft.
5. $1000 Theft of jewelry,  watches, precious and
semi-precious stones and precious
metals including platinum, gold and
silver, and furs, including any article
containing fur if that fur accounts for its
principal value.
6. $1000 Manuscripts.
7. $5000 Theft of silverware and goldware.
8. $2000 Theft of guns and related equipment.
9. $2000 Theft of archery equipment.
10. $1000 Grave Markers (whether or not attached
to realty).
11. $2500 Business property, on the residence
premises
 if not related to a business
conducted on the residence premises.
12. $ 250 Business  property away from the
residence premises.
13. $1000 Recreational motor vehicles.
14. $1000 Personal property you do not own.
15. $ 500 Audio tapes, video tapes, audio discs,
video discs, and all other electronic
media while located away from the
residence premises.
16. $1000 Collector cards.
17. $1000 Comic books.
18. $ 500 Parts and accessories for motorized
vehicles that are not permanently
attached to a motorized vehicle.  This
limitation does not apply to parts and
accessories for vehicles used solely to
service the residence premises.
HO-3 (01-07) 18
EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO COVERAGE C
We do not cover any loss or damage if it would not
have occurred in the absence of any event or
condition listed below.  That loss or damage is
excluded from coverage regardless of:
(a) the proximate cause of that event or
condition;
(b) the fact that other events or conditions,
which are not excluded, caused the loss or
damage;
(c) the fact that other events or conditions,
which are not excluded, contributed to the
loss or damage;
(d) the sequence of the events or conditions
that caused the loss or damage;
(e) whether the events and conditions that
caused the loss or damage occurred
suddenly or gradually;
(f) whether the loss or damage is isolated or
widespread; or
(g) whether the loss or damage arises from
natural forces, external forces, or a
combination of such forces.
1. Enforcement of any ordinance or law regulating
the construction, repair or demolition of a
building or other structure. We do cover loss
caused by actions of civil authorities to prevent
the spread of a fire if that fire is caused by a peril
we insure against.
2. Movement of materials that support, or
surround, a structure.  We do not cover losses
resulting from damage to any structure
including, but not limited to: a) patios, b)
pavement, c) foundations, d) walls, e) floors, f)
roofs, g) ceilings, or h) slabs, caused by the
sinking, rising, shifting, expanding, or
contracting, of earth or any other supporting, or
surrounding, material.  This exclusion applies to
losses resulting from earthquakes, volcanic
explosions, lava flow, landslides, mudflow,
mudslides, sinking of ground, subsidence,
erosion, movement resulting from improper
construction or compaction, site selection, or
any other force. We do cover accidental direct
physical loss that occurs subsequent to any of
these causes if that loss is caused by theft, fire,
or explosion.
3. (a) Water, or water borne contaminants or
materials, that flows on, or under, the
surface of the ground; waves; tidal waters;
or overflow of a stream or any body of
water. We do not cover spray from any of
these, whether or not driven by wind.
(b) Water, or water borne contaminants or
materials, that escapes from a pool or water
system, unless the portion of that pool or
water system from which the water escapes
is physically located within a building that
is permanently attached to the  residence
premises.
(c) Water, or water borne contaminants or
materials, that overflows from sewers,
drains, or pumps, if that overflow is caused
by the inadequacy of the sewer, drain, or
pump system, or by an obstruction of such
that is located off of the residence
premises.
(d) Water, or water borne contaminants or
materials, below the surface of the
ground, that exerts pressure on, or flows,
seeps, or leaks, through any part of a
building or other structure, sidewalk,
driveway or pool.
(e) Condensation of water vapor.
We do cover accidental direct physical loss that
occurs subsequent to any of the events or
conditions listed in 3(a), 3(b), 3(c), 3(d) and
3(e), above, if that loss is caused by theft, fire
or explosion.
4. Power, heating, or cooling failure or interruption,
unless it results from accidental direct physical
loss to power, heating or cooling equipment
located on the residence premises and that loss
is caused by a peril we insure against. We do
cover accidental direct physical loss that occurs
subsequent to any of these events if that loss is
caused by theft, fire, or explosion.
HO-3 (01-07) 19
5. Neglect of an insured  to use all reasonable
means to protect covered property at and after
the time of loss or when property is threatened
by a peril we insure against.
6. War.
7. Nuclear reaction, radiation, radioactive
contamination or discharge of a nuclear weapon
even if accidental, or any consequence of any
of these.
8. An intentional act by, or at the direction of, any
insured  that a reasonable individual  would
expect to cause the loss for which the claim is
made.
9. Any event causing loss to outdoor radio and
television equipment except as provided in
Coverage A.
10. Any event causing loss to piers, bulkheads,
wharves and docks and anything attached to
them.
11. Business activities of any insured.
12. Any defect, inadequacy, fault, unsoundness or
weakness in:
(a) material used for construction or repair;
(b) site preparation including planning, zoning,
surveying, grading, compaction and
placement;
(c) workmanship, design or engineering
specifications; or
(d) maintenance of land, structures,
improvements and similar property on or off
of the residence premises;
if such defect, inadequacy, fault, unsoundness or
weakness existed before the accident  that
resulted in the loss.
13. Illegal activities of any insured.
14. Dishonesty of any insured.
We do not cover any peril or loss listed above even
if the loss is caused in part by:
(a) the action, lack of action or decision of any
person , group, organization or
governmental body, or
(b) the conduct of any person , group,
organization or governmental body,
regardless of whether that conduct is
negligent, wrongful, intentional or without
fault;
We do cover accidental direct physical loss  that
occurs subsequent to the events or conditions listed
in (a) and (b), above, if that loss is caused by fire or
explosion.
EXCLUSIONS OF CERTAIN CATEGORIES OF
PERSONAL PROPERTY
We do not cover the following items of personal
property.
1. Animals.
2. Vehicles that are, or at any time were, motorized
and all parts and accessories attached to them,
unless those vehicles are:
(a) used primarily to service the residence
premises;
(b) originally designed to assist the physically
handicapped; or
(c) recreational motor vehicles.
3. Aircraft, except model airplanes that are not used
or designed for transporting cargo or people.
4. Parts and accessories for aircraft.
5. Personal property of roomers or boarders who
are not related to an insured.
6. Personal property of tenants.
7. Business personal property:
(a) relating to a business  conducted on the
residence premises; or
(b) books of account, drawings or other paper
records; or
(c) electronic data processing tapes, wires,
records, disc or other software media
containing business data.
8. Personal property rented, or held for rental, to
others by an insured. However, we do cover that
property while on the part of the residence
premises used exclusively by an insured, or by
a person renting or leasing that portion of the
residence premises.
9. Electronic devices that may be operated by the
electrical system of aircraft, watercraft, land
motor vehicles or recreational motor vehicles
HO-3 (01-07) 20
if they are permanently installed in or upon an
aircraft, watercraft, land motor vehicle   o r
recreational  motor vehicle . Antennas, wires
and brackets for these devices, are not covered
while in or upon an aircraft, watercraft, land
motor vehicle or recreational motor vehicle.
10. Film, tape, discs, drums, cells and all other
magnetic recording or storage media for
electronic data processing. However, we do
cover such media in unexposed or blank form.
11. Electronic data, digital data, or optical data,
stored on any media.  This exclusion applies to
all forms of such data including, but not limited
to, music and photographs. However, we do
cover commercial data processing software if it
is commonly available on the retail market at the
time of the loss.
12. Personal property specifically, or categorically,
insured by any other insurance.
13. Personal property specifically, or categorically,
listed in any endorsement to this policy except
to the extent stated in that endorsement.
COVERAGE D-ADDITIONAL LIVING EXPENSE AND
LOSS OF RENTS
INSURING AGREEMENT
If your residence premises sustains a covered loss
that exceeds the applicable deductible and, as a
direct result of that loss, your residence premises
is uninhabitable
, we will pay the increase in your living
expense reasonably necessary to maintain your
normal standard of living for the shortest time
reasonably necessary:
1. to repair or replace the damaged property, or
2. for you to permanently relocate.
We will also pay for your loss of income resulting
from a covered loss while the part of the residence
premises you rented or leased before the loss is
uninhabitable. From that payment we will deduct any
charges and expenses that do not continue during
that time. We will pay you for this loss of income only
for the time reasonably needed to make the rented
or leased part of the residence premises habitable.
We will not pay for loss or expense due to the
cancellation of any rental or lease agreement.
If a peril we insure against causes civil authorities to
prohibit occupancy of the residence premises , we
will pay:
1. the reasonable additional living expenses you
incur for up to two weeks from the day you
vacate the residence premises, and
2. any loss of income you incur for a part of the
residence premises that was actually rented or
leased for up to two weeks from the date your
tenant vacates the residence premises.
The periods of time set out in this section of the
policy will not be shortened by the expiration of the
policy.
No deductible applies to these coverages.
ADDITIONAL COVERAGES UNDER SECTION I
Unless the specific coverage indicates that no
deductible applies, we will pay only for loss to the
covered property minus the deductible.
1. Hauling Away Of Damaged Property
We will pay the reasonable expenses you incur
to have the following items hauled away from the
residence premises:
(a) the remains of property damaged by a peril
we insure it against;
(b) the remains of property that is not covered
by this policy but which was damaged by
wind, lightning, or explosion, if:
(1) it caused accidental direct physical
loss to covered property; and
(2) this coverage is not provided elsewhere
in this policy;
(c) ash, dust or particles from a volcanic
eruption that caused accidental direct
physical loss  to a building or property
within a building.
Any amounts paid under this coverage will
reduce the limits applicable to the covered
HO-3 (01-07) 21
property. However, if damage to covered
property plus the cost of the debris removal
covered by this section is more than the limit of
our liability applicable to that covered property,
we will pay up to an additional 5% of the limit
of the applicable coverage for debris removal
under this section.
No coverage is provided  under this section for
the removal of trees, shrubs, plants, and lawns.
Coverage for those items, if any, is provided
under a specific heading elsewhere in this policy.
No coverage is provided under this section for
the fees or expenses you incur for tearing off,
or tearing out, the remains of covered property.
Coverage for those items, if any, is a part of the
restoration cost associated with the specific loss.
2. Fire Department Charges
We will pay up to $500 for your liability under
an agreement for service charges made by a fire
department when called to protect your covered
property from a peril we insure against. This
payment is in addition to the amount of
insurance applying to the loss. No deductible
applies to this coverage.
3. Damage To Covered Property During Emergency
Removal
We will pay for covered property damaged in any
way while being removed from, or returned to,
a premise to protect that covered property from
a peril we insure against, if that peril is imminent.
This coverage is limited to a 30 day period from
date of removal. Any amounts paid under this
coverage will reduce the limits applicable to the
covered property.
4. Losses To Trees, Shrubs, Plants, and Lawns
We will pay for loss to trees, shrubs, plants, and
lawns, at the residence premises if they are
within 200 feet of your dwelling and are not
grown for business purposes.  This coverage
applies only if the damage to them is caused by
any of the following perils: fire, lightning,
explosion, riot, civil commotion, aircraft,
vandalism, malicious mischief, theft, or vehicles
that are not owned, or operated, by an individual
who, at the time of the loss, was living at the
residence premises.
Our maximum limit of liability for all coverages
provided in this section is 5% of the limit of
insurance under the Dwelling Coverage, but it will
be paid in addition to that limit. Subject to that
maximum limit of liability, we will pay no more
than:
(a) $500 in any 12 month period for damage to
any one covered tree, shrub, or plant; and
(b) $2500 in any 12 month period for damage
to a covered lawn.
5. Hauling Away Of Damaged Trees, Shrubs, Plants,
and Lawns
We will pay the reasonable expenses you incur
to have the remains of trees, shrubs, plants, and
lawns, which are covered under the previous
section, hauled away from the residence
premises.
We will pay the reasonable expenses you incur,
up to an aggregate of $500, to have the remains
of trees that are damaged by wind hauled away
from the residence premises, if those trees:
(a) are within 200 feet of your dwelling; and
(b) damaged property covered by this policy
when they fell.
6. Credit Card, Charge Plate, Fund Transfer Card,
Check Forgery and Counterfeit Money Coverages
We will pay an amount not to exceed $1000 for
any one loss involving one or more of the
following coverages. All loss resulting from a
series of acts committed by any one person, or
in which any one person  is concerned or
implicated, is considered to be one loss. No
deductible applies to these coverages.
(a) Credit Card, Charge Plate and Fund Transfer
Card Coverage
If an insured is legally required to pay for
the unauthorized use of a credit card, charge
plate, or card used for deposit, withdrawal
HO-3 (01-07) 22
or transfer of funds, issued to the insured,
we will cover the loss. If a claim is made
or suit is brought against the insured for
liability under this coverage, we will defend
the insured. We will use our lawyers and
bear the expense. We may investigate any
claim  or settle any suit as we  think
appropriate. We will not defend after we
have paid an amount equal to the limit of
our liability.
We do not cover:
(1) use of the credit card, charge plate or
card used for deposit, withdrawal or
transfer of funds by a resident of your
household;
(2) use by someone to whom an insured
has given the credit card, charge plate
or card used for deposit, withdrawal or
transfer of funds; or
(3) any use unless the insured has met all
the terms under which the card or plate
was issued.
(b) Check Forgery Coverage
We cover loss to any insured caused by
forgery or alteration of a check. This
includes all negotiable instruments. If a
claim is made or suit is brought against the
insured for liability under this coverage, we
will defend the insured. We will use our
lawyers and bear the expense. We may at
our option and at our expense, defend the
insured or that person’s bank against a suit
to enforce payment under this coverage. We
may investigate any claim or settle any suit
as we think appropriate. We will not defend
after we have paid an amount equal to the
limit of our liability.
(c) Counterfeit Money Coverage
We cover loss sustained by an insured
through acceptance in good faith of
counterfeit United States or Canadian paper
currency. However, we will not pay more
than $50 for counterfeit United States or
Canadian paper currency accepted in any
one transaction or, regardless of any other
provision, more than $100 in the aggregate.
7. Refrigerated Food Products
We will pay up to $500 in the aggregate for loss
to the contents of all freezer and refrigerator
units on the insured premises. The contents
must be owned by you. The loss must be caused
by change in temperature due to a verifiable
interruption of electrical service from generating
or transmission equipment outside the structure
in which the freezer or refrigerator is located. Any
amounts paid under this coverage will reduce the
limits applicable to the covered property. No
deductible applies to this coverage.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS AND CONDITIONS RELATING
TO SECTION I
1. What To Do In Case Of Loss
If a covered loss occurs, the insured must take
all of the following actions if applicable to that
loss:
(a) Give us immediate notice and, in case of
theft or suspected theft, you must also
notify the police immediately.
(b) Protect the property from further damage.
Make necessary and reasonable temporary
repairs to protect the property, and keep
records of the cost of those repairs.
(c) Send to us, within 60 days after its receipt
by you, a proof of loss signed and sworn
to by the insured, including:
(1) the time and cause of loss;
(2) the reason for the loss;
(3) the interest of insureds and all others
in the property;
(4) the total value of the property
immediately before and after the loss;
(5) all encumbrances on the property;
(6) other policies covering the loss;
(7) changes in title, use, occupancy or
possession of the property;
(8) a list (schedule) of personal property
damaged or destroyed including all
facts known to you regarding:
HO-3 (01-07) 23
(i) its quantity,
(ii) its description,
(iii) from whom it was obtained,
(iv) the date it was obtained or
purchased,
(v) whether it was purchased new or
used,
(vi) the amount of its purchase price,
(vii) the current replacement cost,
(viii)the cost to repair it,
(ix) the amount of your loss; and
(9) if required, any plans and specifications
of any damaged building or fixtures;
(d) Show the damaged property to us or our
representative prior to its replacement or
repair , as often as we may reasonably
require.
(e) Submit to examinations under oath by any
person named by us, out of the presence
of any other individual other than a licensed
attorney  and sign the transcript of the
examinations.
(f) Produce for examination, and permit us to
copy, records pertaining to any loss of
rental or  lease  income, all books of
account, bills, invoices, receipts and other
vouchers that we may reasonably require.
(g) Produce receipts for any increased costs
you incur to maintain your standard of living
while you dwell elsewhere.
(h) Authorize us, in writing, to obtain any other
records that may be relevant to the claim
or may reasonably be expected to aid our
investigators in determining the facts
relevant to the claim.
2. Insurable Interest
We will not pay more than the insurable interest
an insured has in the covered property at the
time of loss.
3. Abandoned Property
We are not obliged to accept abandoned
property.
4. Loss to a Pair or Set
We may, at our option:
(a) repair or replace any part of a pair or set
to restore the pair or set to its market value
before the loss; or
(b) pay the amount by which the 
market value
of the pair or set has diminished because
of the loss of, or damage to, the part.
5. Loss Payable Clause
We will adjust any loss with you, and make any
payment due to you. However, if another person
is named in the Declarations as a “loss payee”,
we will include the name of that person on any
settlement check or draft and deliver it to you or
such loss payee, at our option.
6. Mortgagees and Trustees Under Deeds of Trust
We will adjust any loss with you, and make
any payment due to you. However, if another
person  is named in the Declarations  as a
“mortgagee”, or “trustee” under a trust deed,
we will pay any amount due to that mortgagee
or trustee to the extent of its interests. If the
name of more than one such person  appears,
we will pay them in the order of precedence
of their mortgages or trust deeds. This
provision does not apply to contracts for deed
or any similar method of sale in which
ownership  of the property does not pass to
the insured until all payments on the purchase
loan are made.
Any payment due to a mortgagee or trustee
under this provision will not be invalidated by:
(a) any act or neglect of the mortgagor or
owner of the insured property;
(b) any foreclosure or other proceedings or
notice of sale relating to the property;
(c) any change in the title or ownership of the
property; or
(d) the occupation of the premises  for
purposes more hazardous than are
permitted by this policy.
If the mortgagor or owner neglects to pay any
premium due under this policy, the mortgagee
or trustee must pay it, immediately upon our
demand.
HO-3 (01-07) 24
Any mortgagee or trustee must notify us of any
change of:
(a) ownership;
(b) occupancy; or
(c) increased risk of a loss to the insured
property;
of which it has knowledge within ten days of its
acquisition of that knowledge. The mortgagee or
trustee must also pay the additional premium for
such increased risk of loss for the balance of the
term of this policy. Failure to provide such notice
or make such payment will result in an
immediate loss of coverage to the mortgagee or
trustee.
We may cancel this policy at any time as
provided by its terms, however if we do so, it
will continue in force as to benefits due the
mortgagee or trustee for 10 days after notice is
mailed to the mortgagee or trustee of such
cancellation. At the end of those 10 days all
benefits under this policy will end.  This provision
does not apply to loss payees.
If another policy of insurance provides coverages
similar to those provided in Section I of this
policy, the benefits provided under this policy will
apply as excess only over those provided by
such other policy. In that instance, benefits will
be payable under this policy only to the extent
the limits of the coverage provided under this
policy exceed the limits provided by the other
policy.
If we pay the mortgagee or trustee any sum for
loss under this policy, and we contend that we
had no obligation to pay the mortgagor or owner,
we will be subrogated to all of the rights of the
party to whom such payment is made to the
extent of such payment. Our interest will extend
to all securities held as collateral for the
mortgage debt. Any mortgagee or trustee so paid
agrees to sign whatever documents and take
whatever actions we may reasonably request to
enforce our rights under this provision. Our
subrogation rights will not be enforced in such
a way as to impair the right of the mortgagee or
trustee to recover the full amount due under the
mortgage.
If we pay the mortgagee or trustee any sum for
loss under this policy, and we contend that we
had no obligation to pay the mortgagor or owner,
we may, at our option, pay the mortgagee or
trustee the entire principal sum of the loan, with
interest accrued to the date of payment and, if
we do so, that person agrees to make a full
assignment and transfer of the mortgage or trust
deed and all other securities applicable to the
loan to us.
7. Suit Against Us
Any lawsuit seeking coverage or benefits under
Section I of this policy must be brought within
one year after the loss or damage occurs, unless
the law of the state in which this policy was
issued prohibits this contractual limitation
period. This period is extended by the number
of days between the date of your loss and the
date we deny the claim in whole or in part.
8. No Benefit to Bailee
This insurance will not, in any way, benefit any
person  who may be caring for or handling
property for a fee.
9. Recovered Property
If you recover any lost or stolen property for
which we have made a payment under this
policy, you agree to notify us of that fact within
ten days of its recovery.  If you want to keep the
property you may do so if you return the entire
amount we paid you
 because of its loss.  If you
do not want to keep the property, you agree to
allow us to take it, if we chose to do so.  In that
event the property will become our property.
If we recover any lost or stolen property for
which we have made a payment under this
policy, we agree to notify you of that fact within
ten days of its recovery.  If you want the property
HO-3 (01-07) 25
you may take it if you return the entire amount
we paid you because of its loss.  If you do not
want the property, you agree to allow us to keep
it, if we chose to do so.  In that event the
property will become our property.
10. Payments Under This Section Of The Policy
Before we make any payments under Section I
of this policy,
(a) we must receive your completed proof of
loss;
(b) you must comply with all conditions of this
policy; and
(c) the amount of the loss must have been
established by either:
(1) an agreement between you and us, or
(2) a final judgment of a court of law.
When these steps are completed, we will make
any payments due for a covered loss within 30
days.
11. Appraisal
Any appraisal that becomes necessary under the
terms of this policy will be handled in
accordance with the state specific endorsement
attached to this policy.
HOW LOSSES UNDER SECTION I ARE SETTLED
(A) These provisions apply to all losses settled
under paragraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E), below:
(1) If the total restoration cost  of all covered
property damaged in one accident is less
than one thousand dollars, we will pay you
the total restoration cost.
(2) The amount of your deductible  will be
deducted from all losses covered under
Section I of this policy, unless the specific
coverage under which the loss is covered
says otherwise. A single deductible applies
to all covered losses caused by any one
accident.
(3) If we cannot agree with you as to the total
restoration cost, restoration cost, market
value or actual cash value, and agreement
is required under this policy in order to
conclude a claim , the total restoration
cost, restoration cost
, market value  or
actual cash value, whichever may apply to
the specific claim, will be determined in
accordance with the appraisal section of the
state specific endorsement attached to this
policy.
(B) This provision applies to covered losses to all
personal property:
(1) When we agree with you as to the market
value of the damaged part of those items,
we will, at our  option, do one of the
following:
(a) pay the market value of the damaged
part of the covered property;
(b) pay the restoration cost of the
damaged part of the covered property;
(c) pay to replace the damaged part of the
covered property, in kind; or
(d) pay the limit of coverage stated in this
policy as applicable to the item,
including any special limits, or limits
based on the location of the item.
(2) All payments made under this provision will
be applied against the limits of Coverage C.
(3) If we make a payment to you under this
provision, we may, at our option take all or
part of the covered item for which that
payment was made.
(C) This provision applies to covered losses to
structures that are not buildings:
(1) When we agree with you  as to the
restoration cost  of the damaged part of
those items, we will, at our option, do one
of the following:
(a) pay the actual cash value  of the
damaged part of the covered property;
(b) pay to replace the damaged part of the
covered property, in kind; or
(c) pay the limit of coverage stated in this
policy as applicable to the item.
(2) All payments made under this provision will
be applied against the limits of Coverage B.
HO-3 (01-07) 26
(3) If we make a payment to you under this
provision, we may, at our option take all or
part of the covered item for which that
payment was made.
(D) This provision applies to covered losses to the
following items if they are permanently attached
to the residence  premises : (i) antennas, (ii)
awnings, (iii) floor surfacing materials, and (iv)
domestic appliances:
(1) When we agree with you  as to the
restoration cost  of the damaged part of
those items, we will, at our option, do one
of the following:
(a) pay the actual cash value  of the
damaged part of the covered property;
(b) replace  the damaged part of the
covered property, in kind; or
(c) pay the limit of coverage stated in this
policy as applicable to the item.
(2) All payments made under this provision will
be applied against the limits of Coverage A,
or B, whichever may apply to the specific
loss.
(3) If we make a payment to you under this
provision, we may, at our option take all or
part of the covered item for which that
payment was made.
(E) This provision applies to covered losses to all
items that are not included in sections (B), (C),
or (D), above:
(1) We will estimate the total restoration cost
of the damaged part of those items. Based
on that estimate, we will estimate the actual
cash value of the damaged part of those
items and will, at our option, do one of the
following:
(a) pay the estimated restoration cost of
the damaged part of the covered
property;
(b) pay the estimated actual cash value of
the damaged part of the covered
property;
(c) pay to replace the damaged part of the
covered property, in kind; or
(d) pay the limit of coverage stated in this
policy as applicable to the item.
(2) No further payment will be made unless,
within one year of the date of the loss:
(a) all the repairs  and replacements
necessary to restore the form and
function of the damaged part of the
covered property have actually been
completed; and
(b) the total  restoration  cost is agreed
upon by you and us.
We will then pay you:
(c) the difference between the amount we
have already paid you  and the
restoration cost of that particular part,
plus
(d) any reasonable and necessary charges
you  actually incurred for general
contractors’ overhead and profit; or
(e) if the amount we have already paid you
plus the amounts payable under (c) and
(d), immediately above, total more than
the limit of liability shown in the
Declarations  applicable to the
particular loss, we will pay you the
difference between the amount we have
already paid you  and that limit of
liability.
(3) All payments made under this provision will
be applied against the limits of Coverage A
or B, whichever may apply to the specific
loss.
(4) If we pay to replace  an item under this
provision, we may, at our option take all or
part of the covered item for which that
payment was made.
HO-3 (01-07) 27

Section II — PERSONAL LIABILITY AND MEDICAL PAYMENT PROTECTION

COVERAGE E - PERSONAL LIABILITY
INSURING AGREEMENT
Subject to the limit of our liability stated in this
section, we will pay on behalf of an insured, all sums
that such insured becomes legally obligated to pay
as damages, if those damages result from an
accident.
OUR RIGHT TO INVESTIGATE AND SETTLE CLAIMS
We may investigate and settle any claim as we think
appropriate.
LIMITS OF LIABILITY
Regardless of the number of insureds, persons
injured, claims made, or locations shown, our liability
is limited to the limits of liability stated in the
Declarations under the heading “Personal Liability
(Bodily Injury & Property Damage) Each Occurrence”.
That amount is the limit of our liability for all damages
resulting from any one accident.
With respect to claims  arising out of the use of
watercraft not owned by an insured, our liability is
limited to $100,000 per accident regardless of the
number of insureds , persons  injured, or claims
made, regardless of the limits of liability stated in the
Declarations under the heading “Personal Liability
(Bodily Injury & Property Damage) Each Occurrence”.
EXCLUSIONS
We do not cover:
1. Bodily injury or property damage arising out of
the ownership, maintenance, operation, use, or
entrustment of:
(a) Aircraft other than miniature aircraft that are
not designed to transport cargo or people.
(b) Land motor vehicles , other than a
recreational motor vehicle:
(1) owned by any insured;
(2) operated by any insured;
(3) rented to any insured; or
(4) loaned to any insured.
We do provide coverage if the 
land motor
vehicle  is kept in dead storage on the
insured premises and is not  licensed for
use on public roadways.
(c) Motorized vehicles, if the bodily injury or
property damage  occurs away from the
insured premises. This exclusion does not
apply to:
(1) a golf cart while it is being used for
golfing on a golf course;
(2) a motorized vehicle originally designed
to assist the physically handicapped;
(3) a motorized vehicle, other than a land
motor vehicle, used in a part-time job
related activity by you or a relative, if
the individual engaged in that activity
is under the age of twenty-five, and is
a full time student; or
(4) a lawn mower while used to mow other
premises so long as such mowing is
not a business.
(d) Motorized vehicles used, or designed to be
used, in competition with other vehicles; or
(e) Watercraft, if the bodily injury or property
damage  occurs away from the insured
premises.  This exclusion does not apply if
the watercraft:
(1) Is owned by an insured, and has:
(i) an outboard propulsion motor with
25 horsepower, or less; or
(ii) an inboard, inboard/outdrive, water
jet drive, or any other design of
propulsion motor with 50
horsepower or less.
(2) Is owned by an insured and is a sailing
vessel 25 feet or less in length, with or
without, an auxiliary propulsion motor
of any size.
(3) Is rented by an insured, and:
(i) has a propulsion motor with 200
horsepower or less.  This applies to
all propulsion motors whether,
outboard, inboard, inboard/outdrive,
water jet drive, or any other design;
HO-3 (01-07) 28
(ii) is a sailing vessel 25 feet or less
in length without an auxiliary
propulsion motor;or
(iii) is a sailing vessel 25 feet or less
in length with an auxiliary
propulsion motor with 200
horsepower or less.
2. Bodily injury or property damage arising out of
the rendering or failing to render professional
services.
3. Bodily injury or property damage arising out of
the business of any insured.
4. Bodily injury or property damage arising out of
the condition of any premises owned, rented or
controlled by an insured that is not an insured
premises. However, we will cover bodily injury
to any residence employee arising out of, and
in the course of, employment by an insured at
such premises.
5. Bodily injury  or property damage  that any
insured intended to cause.
6. Bodily injury  or property damage that a
reasonable individual would expect to result
from the intentional acts of any insured.
7. Bodily injury or property damage arising out of
war.
8. Bodily injury or property damage that arises out
of the transmission of communicable diseases
by any insured.
9. Liability that arises solely because of a contract,
warranty, or agreement, made by any insured.
10. Property damage to personal property:
(a)
owned by any insured;
(b) used by any insured;
(c) rented to any insured; or
(d) in the care of any insured.
11. Property damage to premises:
(a) owned by any insured;
(b) occupied by any insured;
(c) used by any insured;
(d) rented to any insured; or
(e) in the care of any insured.
We will cover property damage to such premises
or property caused by fire, smoke or explosion.
12. Bodily injury  to any individual who is entitled
to benefits for that bodily injury  that are
provided, or required under any compensation
law to be provided, by anyone.
13. Bodily injury  or property damage  when any
insured is covered under any nuclear energy
liability policy. This exclusion applies even if the
limits of liability of that policy have been
exhausted.
14. Bodily injury  to any resident  of the insured
premises, except a residence employee.
15. Bodily injury  to a residence employee  unless
written claim is made within 12 months after the
end of the policy term during which the accident
occurred.
16. Bodily injury  to any insured . This exclusion
applies, even if the claim  is one seeking
contribution toward, or repayment of, damages
based upon that bodily injury.
17. Bodily injury  to any individual
 who is on the
insured premises  because of the business of
any insured.
18. Property damage  to property that is on the
insured premises  because of the business of
any insured.
19. Bodily injury  or property damages arising out
of any activity of any insured  that would
constitute a felony under the laws of the state in
which such activity occurred, whether or not
such insured is actually charged with a crime for
that activity.
20. Liability of any insured for punitive damages.
21. Bodily injury or property damage arising out of,
or caused, in whole or in part, by asbestos, radon,
mold, lead, paint containing lead, chemicals,
petroleum products, or any other substance or
material containing lead, or any pollutant.
22. Any legal obligation of any insured  for
indemnification or contribution due because of
bodily injury  or property damage caused, in
whole or in part, by asbestos, radon, mold, lead,
paint containing lead, chemicals, petroleum
products, or any other substance or material
containing lead, or any pollutant.
HO-3 (01-07)
23. Any loss, cost or expense arising out of any
governmental direction or request that any insured
test for, monitor, clean up, remove, abate, contain,
treat or neutralize asbestos, radon, mold, lead,
paint containing lead, chemicals, petroleum
products or any other substance or material
containing lead, or any pollutant.
24. Property damage arising out of the intentional
or negligent misrepresentation or non-disclosure
of any material fact related to the sale, or
attempted sale, of property owned  by any
insured.
25. Bodily injury or property damage for which an
insured  may be held liable because of the
ownership or harboring of animals that are not
customarily kept as household pets.
COVERAGE F - MEDICAL PAYMENTS TO OTHERS
INSURING AGREEMENT
Subject to the limit of our liability stated in this
section, we will pay the reasonable  charges  for
necessary goods and services incurred within three
years after the date of a covered injury.
ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS USED IN THIS COVERAGE
1. Covered injury means a bodily injury, caused by
an accident that occurred:
(a) while the injured individual  was on an
insured premises with the permission of an
insured, or
(b) while the injured individual was elsewhere,
if the bodily injury:
(1) resulted from the condition of the
insured premises;
(2) was caused by an insured;
(3) was caused by a residence employee
in the course of his or her employment
by an insured;
(4) was caused by an animal owned by, or
under the control of, an insured; or
(5) was sustained by a residence
employee and arose out of, and in the
course of, his or her employment by an
insured.
Covered injury does not mean bodily injury to
any 
insured.
2. Necessary goods and services  means the
goods and services furnished, or prescribed, by
a health care provider which, in our judgment,
are necessary for the proper treatment of a
covered injury  in the most efficient and
economical way that it can be safely treated.  We
may employ outside reviewers, consultants and
data providers in formulating our judgment as
to whether the goods and services are necessary
goods and services .  The determination of
whether goods and services are necessary
goods and services  may be made after the
individual making the claim has received the
goods and services.  The fact that a licensed
health care provider furnished, rendered, or
prescribed the goods and services is not solely
determinative of whether they are necessary
goods and services.
3. Reasonable charges  means charges incurred
for goods and services that, in our judgment, are
within the range of charges for the same or
similar goods and services, in the geographic
area in which the services are rendered or the
goods are provided.  We may employ outside
reviewers, consultants and data providers in
formulating our judgment as to whether the
charges are reasonable charges .  The
determination of whether charges are
reasonable charges  may be made after the
individual making the claim has received the
goods and services for which the charges are
made.  The fact that a licensed health care
provider furnished, rendered, or prescribed the
goods and services is not solely determinative
of whether the charges made for them are
reasonable charges.
DUTIES OF AN INDIVIDUAL WHO MAKES A CLAIM
Any individual who makes a claim under Coverage
F must:
1. authorize us to obtain any records that may be
relevant to the claim  or may reasonably be
29
HO-3 (01-07)
expected to aid our investigators in determining
the facts relevant to the claim;
2. answer, under oath, any questions posed by us,
out of the presence of any other individual, and
sign a written transcript of such questions and
answers;
3. submit to physical examinations, at our expense,
by doctors we select as often as we may
reasonably require; and
4. authorize us to obtain relevant medical records
of the bodily injury  that is the basis for such
claim.
LIMITS OF LIABILITY
Regardless of the number of insureds,  persons
injured, claims made, or locations shown, our liability
is limited to the limits of liability stated in the
Declarations under the heading “Medical Payment To
Others Per Person”. That stated amount is the limit
of our liability for all medical expenses for bodily
injury to any one individual resulting from any one
accident.
PAYMENTS UNDER THIS COVERAGE
We will pay any amount due under this coverage
directly to the individual making the claim unless,
because of a  perfected lien or valid assignment, we
are obligated to pay someone else. We will pay, based
upon such an assignment, only if we receive a written
copy of the assignment before we make payment for
the services for which the assignment was given.
EXCLUSIONS
We do not cover charges related to:
1. Bodily injury to any insured or resident of the
insured  premises , except a  residence
employee.
2. Bodily injury  arising out of the ownership ,
maintenance, operation, use, or entrustment of:
(a) Aircraft owned by or rented
 to any insured
other than miniature aircraft that are not
designed to transport cargo or people.
(b) Land motor vehicles , other than a
recreational motor vehicle:
30
(1) owned by any insured;
(2) operated by any insured;
(3) rented to any insured; or
(4) loaned to any insured.
We do provide coverage if the land motor
vehicle  is kept in dead storage on the
insured premises if it is not licensed for use
on public roadways.
(c) Motorized vehicles , if the bodily injury
occurs away from the insured premises.
This exclusion does not apply to:
(1) a golf cart while it is being used for
golfing on a golf course;
(2) a motorized vehicle originally designed
to assist the physically handicapped;
(3) a motorized vehicle , other than a
land motor vehicle , used in a part-
time job related activity by you or a
relative , if the  individual engaged in
that activity  is under the age of
twenty-five, and is a full time student;
or
(4) a lawn mower while used to mow other
premises so long as such mowing is
not a business.
(d) Motorized vehicles used, or designed to be
used, in competition with other vehicles; or
(e) Watercraft, if the bodily injury occurs away
from the insured premises.
3. Bodily injury  arising out of the rendering or
failing to render professional services.
4. Bodily injury arising out of the 
business of any
insured.
5. Bodily injury  to any individual who is on the
insured premises  because of the business of
any insured.
6. Bodily injury  arising out of any premises
owned, rented or controlled by any insured that
is not an insured premises. However, we will
cover bodily injury  to a residence employee
sustained at such premises if that injury arises
out of, and in the course of, employment by an
insured.
7. Bodily injury that any insured intended to cause.
HO-3 (01-07) 31
8. Bodily injury that a reasonable individual would
expect to result from the intentional acts of any
insured.
9. Bodily injury arising out of war.
10. Bodily injury arising out of the transmission of
communicable diseases by any insured.
11. Bodily injury  to any individual who is entitled
to benefits that are provided, or required to be
provided, under any compensation law.
12. Bodily injury arising out of any nuclear reaction,
radiation or radioactive contamination or any
consequence of any of these.
13. Bodily injury arising out of, or caused, in whole
or in part, by asbestos, radon, mold, lead, paint
containing lead, chemicals, petroleum products,
or any other substance or material containing
lead, or any pollutant.
14. Bodily injury  arising out of any activity of any
insured that would constitute a felony under the
laws of the state in which such activity occurred,
whether or not such insured is actually charged
with a crime for that activity.
COVERAGE G – DAMAGE TO PROPERTY OF OTHERS
INSURING AGREEMENT
We will pay for property damage caused by an
insured to real property or personal property owned
by others.
LIMITS OF LIABILITY
We will not pay more than the smallest of the
following amounts for any one occurrence:
1. the market value of the property at the time of
loss;
2. the restoration cost; or
3. $1,000.
EXCLUSIONS
We will not pay for property damage:
1. caused by any insured who has attained the age
of 13, unless it results from an accident;
2. to property owned by, or rented to:
(a) any insured;
(b) any tenant of an insured; or
(c) any resident of any insured’s household;
3. arising out of:
(a) any act or omission related to making
premises owned
, rented, or controlled by
any insured safe, unless those premises are
the insured premises;
(b) the business of anyone;
(c) the ownership , maintenance or use of a
land  motor  vehicle , trailer, aircraft or
watercraft; or
4. to property insured under Section I of this policy.
ADDITIONAL COVERAGES UNDER SECTION II
We will pay the following costs and expenses if they
result from a claim covered by Section II of this
policy. The payment of these benefits will not reduce
our limits of liability under this Section:
1. All expenses we incur in the settlement of any
claim.
2. If a lawsuit is filed against the insured for damages
that are covered under this section of the policy,
we will defend the insured at our expense, using
lawyers of our choice, and we will pay all expenses
and attorney’s fees we incur in the defense of that
lawsuit. We are no longer obligated to provide, or
to pay for, such defense after we:
(a) offer to the claimant or judgment creditor,
or pay into court, the full amount of our limit
of liability under Coverage E, exclusive of all
judgment interest; or
(b) we offer to the judgment creditor, or pay
into court, that part of a judgment we owe
within our limit of liability under Coverage
E, exclusive of all judgment interest.
3. Court costs that are assessed against an insured
in a civil lawsuit in which we have paid the fees
of the insured’s attorney.
4. Pre-judgment interest due on any amount we owe
within our limits of liability under Coverage E of
this policy. However, our duty to pay pre-judgment
interest on any one claim ends when 
we:
(a) offer to the claimant or judgment creditor,
or pay into court, the full amount of our limit
of liability under Coverage E, exclusive of all
judgment interest; or
HO-3 (01-07) 32
Secretary President and CEO
(b) we offer to the judgment creditor, or pay
into court, that part of a judgment we owe
within our limit of liability under Coverage
E, exclusive of all judgment interest.
5. Post-judgment interest due on any amount we
owe within our limits of liability under Coverage
E. However, our duty to pay post-judgment
interest on any one claim ends when we offer
to the judgment creditor, or pay into court, that
part of the judgment that  we  owe within our
limits of liability under Coverage E, exclusive of
all judgment interest.
6. The cost of any bonds required by an appellate
court to ensure payment of the cost of an appeal,
if that appeal is from a judgment in a civil lawsuit
in which we have paid the fees of the insured’s
attorney. We have no duty to furnish or apply for
any bonds.  The limit of our liability for the cost
of all such bonds is ten percent of the limit of
liability under Coverage E. We do not cover the
cost of supersedeas bonds, or bonds necessary
to stay execution of a judgment during the
pendency of an appeal from that judgment.
7. Up to $250 for each bail bond needed by an
insured because of any one accident  or traffic
law violation resulting from the operation of
a land motor vehicle  insured under this
policy. We have no duty to furnish or apply
for such bonds.
8. Reimbursement that is requested by an insured,
for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred
at our request during the defense of a civil
lawsuit. This does not include wages or salary
lost by an insured who we ask to attend any
proceedings related to the defense of a civil
lawsuit.
MUTUAL POLICY NOTIFICATION
If the Company named in the Declarations is Shelter
Mutual Insurance Company, the following provisions
apply to this policy.
This policy is issued by a mutual company subject
to special legal regulations applicable to its
organization, membership, policies, and contracts of
insurance. Some of those regulations apply to and
form a part of this policy.
You are hereby notified that by virtue of purchasing
this policy you are a member of the Shelter Mutual
Insurance Company of Columbia, Missouri and may
participate, to the extent, and upon the conditions
fixed and determined by the Board of Directors of
the Company in its discretion in the distribution of
dividends it fixes and determines.
You are entitled to vote, either in person or by proxy,
at all meetings of that Company. The annual meeting
of the Shelter Mutual Insurance Company is held at
its Home Office in Columbia, Missouri, on the first
Wednesday in April of each year at 10 o’clock A.M.
All of your 
interest in the Shelter Mutual Insurance
Company, its goodwill, assets, and guaranty fund, will
cease upon termination of this policy, except any
claims that you may then have under this policy and
except for any unearned portion of  your  deposit
premium.
This policy is non-assessable.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company named in the Declarations has caused this policy to be signed by its
President and Chief Executive Officer and its Secretary, and countersigned on the Declarations page by a duly
authorized representative of the Company.
